---
title: "Week Notes 20#17"
description: "What happened in the week of 2020-04-20?"
tags:
- week-notes
license_code: Apache-2.0
license_prose: CC-BY-NC-SA-4.0
date: 2020-04-26T22:04:03+0100
slug: "week-notes-17"
series: week-notes
---
A pretty busy week (at work), with today being day 46 of self-quarantine:

- Tech Nottingham on Monday was good, Euan is a great speaker, and had some good thoughts I need to write up
- On-call ended with no issues, which was nice
- Work has been pretty full-on this week
  - Getting lots done for the shared library (which is now running very close to the wire)
  - Quite a bit of back-and-forth across lots of things, so been a bit more tiring with context-switching
  - Also coming on to 6 weeks before mid-year appraisal, which I want to make sure I'm prepared for!
- [Aligned the rendering of feed across kinds](https://gitlab.com/jamietanna/jvt.me/-/merge_requests/741) which I was pretty happy with to be honest. I really like how articles now appear in the feed, and the consistency of formats, as well as icons on i.e. step counts
- [Added support for `h-cite` markup on my `h-feed`](/mf2/2020/04/aqnvq/) so it means consumers get the same information about i.e. Twitter interactions that folks get when browsing the page
  - But realised that [Bridgy wasn't happy](https://github.com/snarfed/bridgy/issues/936) so needed a fix
- <span class="h-card"><a class="u-url p-name" href="https://carolgilabert.me">Carol</a></span> came over to [drop off my birthday present](/mf2/2020/04/q5aax/), and we had a nice long catchup with her (at a safe distance), which was really nice. It was super weird to be interacting with another human person that didn't involve a screen, and I feel like I'm going to need to get used to it in the future when it's commonplace again.
- While chatting, Morph came out to see what was going on, and noticed one of the neighbourhood cats coming into his territory. The Siamese cat gave him a little meow, and Morph properly yeowled back, and then gave it a big hiss, which scared it off. Bless him, he's keeping us safe
- Had a [virtual escape room](/mf2/2020/04/x54tz/), which was lots of fun, and I'm looking forward to doing again this coming Thursday!
- Friday and the weekend was mostly spent [on the new office setup]({{< ref 2020-04-26-new-office-setup >}}), which I'm looking forward to seeing over the week
  - We had a bit of a trial run, while I was gaming/coding and Anna was on a Tech Nottingham call, and it seemed to be a fair bit better
  - Anna's worked a bit more downstairs over this last week because we've both been on video calls a lot, and it hasn't been as fun right next to each other
- [Added support](https://gitlab.com/jamietanna/www-api/-/merge_requests/145) for which queries are supported on my Micropub endpoint
- [Fixed post-deploy as a result of the above changes](https://gitlab.com/jamietanna/www-api/-/merge_requests/147)
- Spent some time getting `q=source` for post list there, but didn't quite finish
- Investigated `q=contacts`, but didn't get into the code
- Got 35.5/50 in today's [The Big Quiz for Cancer Research UK - Live!](https://www.facebook.com/events/233892091000144/)
- Accidentally left the freezer open a little on Thursday, so Friday/the weekend has been going through things that slightly thawed. We'll need to start refilling our emergency rations, like bread (for soup, if we had to self-isolate)
- Didn't do many chores this weekend, partly because we did lots of moving and tidying of the office, and have felt a bit tired!
- Had a lovely walk on Sunday with Anna - went nosing around some of the lovely houses in Sherwood, and managed to do almost 5000 steps while we were out
- Watched _21 Bridges_
- Was very disappointed with a Ferrero Rocher easter egg
